Pac for 1 9 (#57455)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-creating-pipeline-run-using-pipelines-as-code.adoc

    event == "pull_request" && target_branch == "main" && source_branch == "wip"
...
----

* To run a pipeline only if a path has changed, you can use the `.pathChanged` suffix function with a glob pattern:
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
    event == "pull_request" && "docs/\*.md".pathChanged() <1>
...
----
<1> Matches all markdown files in the `docs` directory.

* To match all pull requests starting with the title `[DOWNSTREAM]`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
    event == "pull_request && event_title.startsWith("[DOWNSTREAM]")
...
----

* To run a pipeline on a `pull_request` event, but skip the `experimental` branch:
+
[source,yaml]
----
...
  pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
    event == "pull_request" && target_branch != experimental"
...
----

For advanced CEL-based filtering while using {pac}, you can use the following fields and suffix functions:

* `event`: A `push` or `pull_request` event.
* `target_branch`: The target branch.
* `source_branch`: The branch of origin of a `pull_request` event. For `push` events, it is same as the `target_branch`.

> * `event_title`: Matches the title of the event, such as the commit title for a `push` event, and the title of a pull or merge request for a `pull_request` event. Currently, only GitHub, Gitlab, and BitbucketCloud are the supported providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `event_title`: Matches the title of the event, such as the commit title for a `push` event, and the title of a pull or merge request for a `pull_request` event. Currently, only GitHub, Gitlab, and Bitbucket Cloud are the supported providers.
```
